# Leaf disease recognition using hybrid transfer learning

This repository is an example of using a hybrid transfer learning model by combing two CNN architectures: VGG16 and DenseNet.

### Implementation Details
- **Data Preprocessing:** The dataset is preprocessed to handle any missing values, perform feature scaling, and encode categorical variables as needed.
- **Train-Test Split:** The dataset is split into a training set and a test set.
- **Transfer Model Training:** The tranfer models are defined with parameters and added as head to the base CNN model.
- **CNN Model Training:** The CNN model is attached with the pretrained transfer learning techniques.
- **Model Evaluation:** The trained model is evaluated on the test data to assess its performance in prediction.

### Requirements
  - Python 3.x   

### Libraries:
  - numpy
  - pandas
  - tensorflow
  - cv2
  - scikit-learn (sklearn)
  - matplotlib

### How to Use the Repository
- **Clone the Repository:** Clone this repository to your local machine using the following command:
```
git clone [https://github.com/your_username/repo_name.git](https://github.com/akhilesh1709/Cancer-recognition-using-hybrid-transfer-learning.git)
```
- **Install Dependencies:** Ensure you have Python 3.x installed and the required libraries by running-
```
pip install numpy pandas scikit-learn tensorflow matolotlib cv2
```
- **Data Preparation:** Load the dataset or a new dataset in a format suitable for training the model.
- **Run the Code:** Execute the code that trains the model and evaluates its performance on the test data.
- **Analyze Results:** Examine the evaluation metrics and predictions generated by the model to gain insights into its performance.

### Contribution
Contributions to this repository are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvement, find any issues, or want to add additional features to the model, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request. Together, let's enhance the hybrid transfer learning model and make it more effective.
